Steven Kong Hooi Cheng
Mobile: 0479 092 328      Email: steven.cheng3@hotmail.com         Linkedin.com/in/steven-cheng-70648a198

CAREER PROFILE
A proactive and knowledgeable, Administration professional committed to achieving results
and providing outstanding Administration support. Delivering excellence and consistency of
accurate,   high   level   performance   and   business   support   in   accordance   with   established
business strategies and goals
A   committed   team   player   or   an   autonomous   worker   that   is   able   to   contribute   cross
functionally   to   deliver   high   quality   outputs   while   leading   a   culture   of   performance   and
accountability by exemplary behaviours.
Highly inquisitive with exceptional standards resulting in an engaging and collaborative style
which motivates individuals and team and instils confidence and trust in business systems
and processe
A proactive and knowledgeable, Administration professional committed to achieving results
and providing outstanding Administration support. Delivering excellence and consistency of
accurate,   high   level   performance   and   business   support   in   accordance   with   established
business strategies and goals
A   committed   team   player   or   an   autonomous   worker   that   is   able   to   contribute   cross
functionally   to   deliver   high   quality   outputs   while   leading   a   culture   of   performance   and
accountability by exemplary behaviours.
Highly inquisitive with exceptional standards resulting in an engaging and collaborative style
which motivates individuals and team and instils confidence and trust in business systems
and processes. 
A proactive and knowledgeable, Administration professional committed to achieving results
and providing outstanding Administration support. Delivering excellence and consistency of
accurate,   high   level   performance   and   business   support   in   accordance   with   established
business strategies and goal
A proactive, experienced and knowledgeable Business Process Management professional who has worked on projects across regions and; managed teams and projects in various countries across Asia Pacific region. A manager capable of operating at both strategic and tactical levels, as well as being sensitive to different cultures and business practices.
An impressive career history of establishing, re-engineering and refining business processes with a concentration on Enterprise Resource Planning and Customer Relationship Management systems and processes. I have extensive experience in, applying Business Process/Operational Excellence methodologies, delivering efficient, consistent quality and simplified processes in customer and business support, in accordance with established business strategies, financial and operational goals.
I am a collaborative, approachable team player, who embraces Agile values and principles, with a reputation for sharing knowledge, mentoring work teams, and raising awareness.  I have extensive experience establishing trusted relationships with global stakeholders.  A devoted, trusted employee who takes on challenges, resolves issues and creates value.

AREAS OF EXPERTISE
Software Development (SDLC, System Analysis, Programming, Testing, Training, Documentation) 
Enterprise Resource Planning (Oracle J.D. Edwards ERP)
Project Management (Waterfall methodology)
I.T. Management (Asia Pacific region)
Business Process Management (Supply Chain Value Stream)
Business Process Management Support Achievements
•	Increased customer care efficiency by 30% through process improvements targeting entire customer order process (from customer order receipt through delivery). (2016-2017)
•	Optimized technology by leading modernization of global ERP Order to Cash value stream and transitioning to more efficient and user-friendly systems. (2018)
•	Compiled, researched and validated internal and external suggestions for process improvements, resulting in 55 improvements in 2019 alone, which enhanced accuracy, efficiency, compliance with statutory requirements, responsiveness, etc. (2019)
•	Enhanced customer experience by implementing Sample Management automated process and system. (2019)

SYSTEMS & APPLICATIONS
•	Oracle J.D. Edwards (Enterprise Resource Planning Applications)
•	SalesLogix (Customer Relationship Management System)
•	WinLIMS (Quality Management System)
•	MS Office Suite (Word, Excel, Outlook, Powerpoint), MS Visio, MS Project


CERTIFICATIONS & TRAINING 
Course						                            Institute					                            Year Completed
AZ900 Microsoft Azure Fundamentals Cert. 	    Microsoft					                            2021
Becoming a Six Sigma Green Belt Cert.		      LinkedIn					                            2021
Understanding Cloud Fundamentals Cert.	      LinkedIn					                            2021
AWS Essential Training for Developers Cert.	  LinkedIn					                            2021
PMI Agile Certified Practitioner Cert. Prep.	LinkedIn					                            2021
Business Process Modelling Certificate		    LinkedIn					                            2021
Operational Excellence Foundations Cert.	    LinkedIn					                            2021
Managing Customer Service Certificate		      University of Georgia, USA			              2020
Creating WordPress Websites Certificate	      University of Georgia, USA			              2020
ITIL Certificate					                    Examination Institute of Information Science	2005
Program for Management Development		        University of Melbourne				                1990
B.SC. in Computer Science and Mathematics	    University of Waikato, NZ			                1981


CAREER SUMMARY	
Role						Name of organisation				Year - Year 
Senior Global Business Process Manager	Cabot Corporation				2015 - 2020
Regional I.T. Manager, Asia Pacific		Cabot Corporation				1994 – 2015
Assistant Regional I.T. Manager, Asia Pacific	Cabot Australasia P/L				1989 – 1993
I.T. Supervisor					Cabot Australasia P/L				1986 - 1988



Employment History

CABOT CORPORATION………………………………………………………1986 TO 2020
Cabot is a leading global specialty chemicals and performance materials company.

Senior Global Business Process Manager (May 2015 – Mar 2020)
•	Developed, maintained and monitored Global Process Standards to provide consistency throughout global operations (Business services centres, plants, functional departments) to improve quality, productivity, cost controls and customer satisfaction.
•	Led global projects in Business Process improvements, Software upgrades and Disaster Recovery Testing.
•	Managed and conducted System Tests, End-to-End Process Tests, User Acceptance Tests and Disaster Recovery Tests.
•	Increased customer care efficiency by 30% through process improvements targeting entire customer order process (from customer order receipt through delivery).
•	Compiled, researched and validated internal and external suggestions for process improvements, resulting in 55 improvements in 2019 alone, which enhanced accuracy, efficiency, compliance with statutory requirements, responsiveness, etc.
•	Optimized technology by leading modernization of global ERP Order to Cash value stream and transitioning to more efficient and user-friendly systems, in 2018.
•	Enhanced customer experience by implementing Sample Management automated process and system.

Regional I.T. Manager, Asia Pacific
Cabot China Ltd – Shanghai, China (May 2010 – Apr 2015) 
Cabot Specialty Chemicals Inc. – Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia (Jan 2006 – Apr 2010)
Cabot Australasia Pty. Ltd – Melbourne, Australia (Jan 1994 – Dec 2005)
•	Led and managed I.T. function, ERP & CRM Business Systems implementations, Business Process Excellence standards and Process Change Management in Asia Pacific region.
•	Led implementation of CRM and Quality systems in Norit Group assimilation project (2013).
•	Established regional service desk and infrastructure support centre (2012 - 2013).
•	Enabled 12 Asia-Pacific companies to upgrade system capabilities by modernizing a 10 year old ERP system. (2009-2011)
•	Established and managed Regional Master Data Management function (2007 – 2009).
•	Re-engineered ERP & CRM systems and processes of 11 Asia-Pacific companies by implementing global business systems and global standard processes throughout region. (2002-2008).
•	Pricing process Subject Matter Expert in re-engineering global ERP systems and processes. Designed, developed and implemented global pricing processes in South America, North America and Europe (2000-2002).
•	Prepared company for Y2K response by re-engineering ERP systems and processes of 10 Asia-Pacific companies and implementing enterprise business application (1997-2000).

Other Professional Experience (Dec 1981 – Dec 1993)
•	Managed Asia-Pacific Business Applications and software development.
•	Re-engineered ERP systems and processes of 5 Asia Pacific companies, by replacing manual processes with automated enterprise business applications in Cabot’s facilities in Australia, Malaysia, Japan, Indonesia and China.
•	Developed business systems for Asia-Pacific business.
•	Established I.T. operations in Cabot’s Australian manufacturing facility.
•	Designed, developed and implemented business application and payroll software.

Outstanding Award – Cabot Corporation’s International Citizenship Award (Mar 11th, 2004)
•	In various communications in recent months, Cabot has expressed the importance of creating a values-based culture of excellence. For an employee model, we need to look no further than Regional IS Manager Steven Cheng. Steven stands out in terms of his character, capabilities and contribution to the company. In his work in Information Services, Steven travels throughout Asia Pacific, a region with a tremendous mix of cultures. Steven is sensitive to, and respectful of, this diversity, and creates around him an environment that Steven exemplifies the professionalism, fairness, honesty and compassion that characterized Kevin Smyth; the two worked together in Australia in the years leading up to Kevin’s death. Like Kevin, Steven’s impact extends far beyond the region in which he works.


REFEREES 
Referee Name				Title / Position  				Company Employed In
Otto Hohm				Director, Business Process Excellence	Cabot Corporation
aul Travis				Director, Core Transactions ERP	Cabot Corporation
